---
layout: newspost
title: All About Covers Part 2
date: 2018-11-24
category: news
---

Welcome back to the book cover design miniseries! To recap:

- [Part 1 was all about the different types of covers (D.I.Y., premade, and custom)](https://kaie.space/news/2018/11/23/All-About-Covers-Part-1.html)

- Part 2 is about the process of commissioning a cover design

- Part 3 (first published in the Nov. 27, 2018 NL) will be about the design for Blind the Eyes specifically.

#### What it's like working with a cover designer

While designing my own covers was good practice and the outcome could have looked (much) worse, leaning too hard into a D.I.Y. ethos can be a mistake. I felt it was important to work with experts where appropriate—and design work (like editing) is one of those areas where it makes sense to recognize your own limitations and invest.

In this case, those limitations were both creative and technical. My artistic and Photoshop skills aren't that finely honed, and light alterations to stock photos were about all I can manage. All my attempts at cover designs were only as strong as the stock photos. I could have flailed around for a few hundred more hours and hoped to hack my way into a reasonable layout, decent photo, and genre-appropriate outcome . . . or I could work with a professional.

I started looking for a cover designer WAY early (mostly because I originally planned to publish about a year before my actual launch date.) Many of the character traits, themes, and worldbuilding elements were already established, but some things did change considerably. It all worked out, as you'll see, but I'd recommend caution if you're a pre-published author eager to get your cover ordered.

That said, there's usually a waitlist involved. I'd been keeping an eye out for cover artists and enquired with Regina Wamba in early March after seeing her work on Instagram. She has her business very well organized, which was helpful in quickly getting a sense of whether we could work together or not.

Specifically, I sent a sort of preliminary enquiry clarifying what I was looking for and asking about rates. She confirmed that she'd be interested in the project, sent over a "menu" of services, and set the timeline. 

Because Regina's a superstar photographer, her offerings ranged from ebook-only cover design (using purchased/3rd–party stock photos) all the way up to custom photography shoots to capture the exact look of the story.

Once a design package was agreed upon, there was a contract to sign, a deposit to pay (at least 50%), and lots of homework. Depending on what you select and who you work with, these terms could vary, but creative work tends to take time, and freelancers have to schedule projects (and therefore often can't do things immediately/last minute).

In this case, the designer asked for 4-6 weeks minimum to process design inspiration, and I ended up letting her know that there was no rush on the design (because I got held up on the editing side) so it was a few months between drafts. 

Design homework on the author's end can look like anything from some quick notes about design ideas to a collection of images or comparable covers.
